---

copyright:
  years: 2016

---
# Setting up the Swift SDK
{: #getting-started-ios}

The {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_full}} SDK allows you to instrument your mobile application. The Swift SDK is available for iOS and watchOS.

## Before you begin
{: #before-you-begin}
<!--You must have an instance of the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} service. For more information, see --> <!-- [Getting started](app-monitoring-start.html). -->
Make sure that you correctly set up Xcode. To learn how to set up your iOS development environment, see the [Apple Developer website](https://developer.apple.com/support/xcode/).

## Identifying your Client Key value
{: #analytics-clientkey}

Before you set up the Client SDK, identify your **Client Key** value, as follows:
1. Open your {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} service dashboard.
2. Click the wrench icon to open the API Keys tab.
3. In the API Keys tab, note the Client Key value.


## Installing the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDK
{: #install-ma-sdk-ios}
The {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} SDK is distributed with CocoaPods, a dependency manager for Objective-C and Swift projects. CocoaPods automatically downloads artifacts from repositories and makes them available to your application.

### Install the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDK with CocoaPods
{: #install-sdk-cocoapods}

1. If CocoaPods is not installed, run: `sudo gem install cocoapods`. For more information, see the [Cocoapods website](https://cocoapods.org/).

2. In Terminal, browse to the root directory of your existing Xcode project or create a new one.

3. If you have not already initialized your workspace for CocoaPods, run the `pod init` command.<br/>
 CocoaPods creates a `Podfile` file for you, which is where you define dependencies for your Xcode project.

4. Add the `BMSAnalytics` pod to your Podfile, for example:

  ### iOS
  ```ruby
   use_frameworks!

   target 'MyApp' do
     platform :ios, '8.0'
     pod 'BMSAnalytics'
   end
  ```

  ### watchOS
  ```ruby
   use_frameworks!

   target 'MyApp WatchKit Extension' do
     platform :watchos, '2.0'
     pod 'BMSAnalytics'
   end
  ```
  **Note:** Uncomment the "use_frameworks!" line in your Podfile.

5. Save the `Podfile` file and run `pod install` from the command line. You can see the progress and which components were added.

6. Open your Xcode project workspace by using the `.xcworkspace` file that was generated by CocoaPods.

**Tip:** By default, the Logger class prints logs to the Xcode console. For privacy concerns, you can disable Logger output for applications that are built in release mode. In the build settings for your target, add a `-D RELEASE_BUILD` flag to the **Other Swift Flags** section of the release build configuration.

## Initializing the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDK
{: #init-ma-sdk-ios}

To use the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDK, you must first initialize the `BMSClient` class. In the initializer, the **bluemixRegion** parameter specifies which Bluemix deployment you are using. You can set this value with a `BMSClient.REGION` static property. You can optionally pass the **applicationGUID** and **applicationRoute** values if you are using another Bluemix service that requires these values, otherwise you can pass empty strings.

1. Import the `BMSCore`, `BMSAnalytics`, and `BMSAnalyticsSpec` frameworks.

2. Use the following code to initialize the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDK. A common, though not mandatory, place to put the initialization code is in the `application(_:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:)` method of your application delegate.

  ```Swift
  BMSClient.sharedInstance
      .initializeWithBluemixAppRoute("your_applicationRoute",
        bluemixAppGUID: "your_applicationGUID", bluemixRegion: BMSClient.REGION_US_SOUTH)
  ```

3. Initialize Analytics by giving it your application’s name. You also need the [**Client Key**](#analytics-clientkey) value. The application name is used as a filter to search for client logs in your MobileFirst Analytics Console. By using the same application name across platforms (for example, Android and iOS), you can see all logs from that application under the same name, regardless of which platform the logs were sent from.

  **Attention:** An optional `deviceEvents` parameter is available for **iOS only** that automatically gathers analytics for device-level events.

  ### iOS
    ```
    Analytics.initializeWithAppName("AppName", apiKey: "your_api_key",
    deviceEvents: DeviceEvent.LIFECYCLE)
    ```

  ### watchOS
  ```
  Analytics.initializeWithAppName("AppName", apiKey: "your_api_key")
  ```

  Add the following line to the applicationDidBecomeActive() method of the ExtensionDelegate class:
  ```
  Analytics.recordApplicationDidBecomeActive()
  ```

  Add the following line to applicationWillResignActive() method of the ExtensionDelegate class:
  ```
  Analytics.recordApplicationWillResignActive()
  ```

  ## Next steps
  {: #next-steps}

Learn about [app monitoring](app-monitoring.html).
